---
title: "010723 Nutrition_fitness_lifestyle_guide"
tags: ["", ""]
draft:
---

*As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.*

Welcome to my guide on how to improve your nutrition, fitness, and overall well-being! In this post, I'll be sharing some tips and strategies that I've found helpful in my own journey towards optimal health. Whether you're just starting out on your health journey or you're looking to fine-tune your routine, I hope you'll find something useful here.

I encourage you to take these tips and try them out for yourself. Remember, everyone is different and what works for one person may not work for another. It's important to listen to your body and be mindful of your own needs and limitations. With that said, I believe that by incorporating these strategies into your daily routine, you can make meaningful improvements to your health and happiness.

One of the most important things I do to maintain my health is to get in some light exercise before and after every meal. This helps with digestion and blood sugar control, and it's a simple but effective way to prime my body to metabolize nutrients and put them to use in the right places. I think this little tip could help non-exercise people to get 10-20% of the results you'd get from going to the gym a few times a week.

In addition to this, I try and make sure to get in at least 30-60 minutes of Zone 2 Cardio every day. This type of exercise is great for improving endurance and maintaining overall fitness, and there are a variety of options to choose from depending on your preferences and fitness level. Some of my favorites include rowing, walking or jogging, cycling, and swimming. One of the main benefits of Zone 2 training is its sustainability. Because it involves working at a lower intensity, it's easier to sustain for longer periods of time, which makes it a great option for daily workouts. Actually, when you first start, you might find that you have to be mindful and slow down compared to your regular run. I use the [Garmin Epix gen 2 #ad](https://amzn.to/3Zemssd) for my heart rate and fitness tracking. I recommend Zone 2 training to many people because it allows you to burn calories without thinking too much about the activity. During times of weight loss, I aim for a slight calorie deficit with higher fiber intake while ramping up the amount of Zone 2 cardio. Strength training is also an important part of my routine, and I aim to do it 2-4 times per week. 

At night, I try to limit my exposure to blue light from screens, which can disrupt sleep and mess with your circadian rhythm. One of the things I like to do to at home is to use smart lights that change color temperature as the evening progresses. My favorite brand for this is [LIFX #ad](https://amzn.to/3ioJFHs). To support a healthy sleep-wake cycle, I change the color temperature of the lights down to 1800 Kelvin as the sun sets. This can help to regulate the body's natural circadian rhythm and make it easier to fall asleep at night. I also use blue light filtering lenses glasses sometimes  when doing long sessions at the computer. At night, red light has been shown to be less disruptive to the circadian rhythm. I will change the lights to red when I am winding down for sleep. Red light has been shown to be less disruptive to sleep and growth hormone production than other colors of light. Over time, better sleep may even have some benefits for glucose metabolism. By using smart lights like these, I'm able to create a more sleep-friendly environment at home and support optimal sleep for the best rest and recovery.

One of the key things I focus on in my nutrition is getting enough fiber. The minimum recommended intake is 40 grams per day, and I try to meet this through a combination of lentils, beans, and other high-fiber foods. To help with blood sugar control, I also like to have a salad with probiotics before every meal.

When it comes to fats, I choose good sources like grass-fed or pasture-raised animal fat, mustard oil, and ghee. Grassfed butter also has higher levels of  Vitamin K which could help with calcification of arteries. I avoid refined or processed oils like canola, crisco, and hydrogenated oils. Fried foods are generally something I try to avoid, but if I do eat them, I make sure to cook it myself, at home, and use fresh, high-quality oil or fat. If I do eat high-carb or fast-carb foods, I make sure to walk before and after the meal to help with blood sugar management.

Instead of sugary or diet sodas, I opt for drinks like [Zevia #ad](https://amzn.to/3Iz7C9E) or soda sweetened with stevia and monk fruit. One of my other favorites right now is [Reed's Zero Sugar Extra Ginger Beer #ad](https://amzn.to/3CtrUh6). These options are lower in sugar and calories and are a healthier alternative to traditional sodas. Growing up, I was a big soda drinker and it wasn't unit 2012 that I switched to naturally sweetened, sugar free sodas and carbonated water instead of traditional sugary sodas. Also, I usually avoid artificial sweeteners.

One of the things I do to manage stress and improve my health is to practice meditation and diaphragmatic breathing exercises. The Wim Hof Method is one technique that I have found to be particularly effective.

In the morning, I like to finish off my meditation or breathing session with some stomach vacuums. This involves contracting and relaxing the muscles of the abdomen, which can help to improve core strength and decrease waist circumfrance over time.

Finally, I've also looked into the potential benefits of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for glucose metabolism. This involves breathing pure oxygen in a pressurized chamber, and while more research is needed, it's something that could be worth considering for those interested in optimizing their health. 

Managing blood sugar and glucose metabolism is crucial component of my nutrition, fitness and lifestyle strategies for maintaining optimal health, and it's something that I focus on in my daily routine. Whether it's through my food choices, my exercise habits, or my sleep and stress management practices, I try to make sure that I'm supporting my body's ability to regulate these important functions. While it can be a challenge to stay on top of everything, the benefits for my overall health and well-being are well worth it. If you're looking to optimize your health and well-being, I encourage you to consider incorporating some of these strategies into your own routine. It may take some time and effort, but the results could be life-changing.
